Responsibilities

Designing and developing RESTful APIs using IBM API Connect (APIC) and AWS API Gateway, including defining API definitions, data models, and endpoints.
Configuring and managing the API Gateway within API Connect to route API requests and handle authentication/authorization.
Designing complex RESTful web services, IBM API Connect (APIC) and AWS API Gateway configurations, while being part of cross functional and agile development teams.
Development of framework libraries which implement, or simplify the implementation of, various enterprise security patterns, especially those related to IBM API Connect and AWS API Gateway.
Assisting development teams throughout the enterprise with the use of IBM API Connect/AWS API Gateway from both an API client and API provider perspective.
Performing code reviews and code merges from all team members.
Implementing security measures like OAuth, API keys, and rate limiting to protect APIs from unauthorized access.
Creating comprehensive API documentation for developers to easily understand and utilize APIs.
Monitoring API performance, identifying issues, and analyzing usage patterns to optimize API operations.
Designing functional/system integration tests and automation.
Working with other groups within IT to foster the DevOps culture around automation of builds, testing, deploys and scaling.
Development of Terraform scripts and tools to facilitate build and deployment automation for integration into our enterprise DevOps solution.

Requirements

Experience with API Gateway configuration and management.
Experience with API platform development in AWS API Gateway using Java and Lambda.
Familiarity with SOAP services, and integrating them with API gateways is preferred.
Strong understanding of API design principles (RESTful APIs, JSON, OpenAPI).
Experience with API platform development in the IBM API Connect platform using Java, Javascript, and Linux shell languages.
2+ years of experience with API Management platform integration and development.
Strong familiarity with AWS.
In-depth knowledge of the Open API 2.0 standard required; familiarity with Open API 3.0 or later is a plus.
An In-depth knowledge of API service implementation is preferred.
Proficiency in programming languages like Java, Node.js, Python (depending on the project).
Knowledge of API security best practices.
Familiarity with cloud platforms (AWS, Azure, GCP).
5+ years of experience in Java (v8+) and Javascript enterprise development and integration middleware development.
5+ years of experience as a software engineer.
3+ years of experience in each of the following skills: Spring Core, Spring Integration, Spring Boot, Spring MVC, Spring Security.
Knowledge of C# and .net is preferred.
Work as a multi-skilled professional practicing Agile/SCRUM methodology.
Passion for collaboration and working on agile teams.
Good documentation skills are a plus.
This is a hybrid position requiring some onsite visits sometimes weekly. Preference given to those within a commutable distance.
